---
layout: post
title:  "INS'hAck CTF 2018 - sudo"
date:   2018-04-08 23:00
categories: [INShAck2018]
tags: [Pwn]
author: jbz
---

>I just wrote a program to easily launch program as other users without using sudo and all its painful configuration.
>Mind having a look?
>ssh sudo@sudo.ctf.insecurity-insa.fr -p 11111 (password: sudo) 

By connecting to the machine we can notice that there is a flag with owner with uid 1000, but we are uid 1001 and we can't cat it.  There is a binary, `sudo`, that contains a whitelist of programs that we are allowed to launch with higher permissions (`uid 1000`). The whitelist is a list of sha256 hashes, and we can notice that they correspond to the hashes of the _content_ of `/bin/ls` and `/usr/bin/id`.  
`$ sha256sum /bin/ls`
same_hash_contained_in_the_sudo_binary

In order to break this we could:
- copy `/bin/ls` to `/tmp/ls`
- start `/tmp/ls` with `./sudo`
- `sudo` will the hash of `/tmp/ls` to see if it is in the whitelist.
- in the meanwhile we replace that binary with our binary that cats the flag.
- if we are able to replace the binary after the read of its content by sudo, and before sudo performs the `execve()`, our binary will start with high permissions.

The problem is that
`$ cp /bin/ls /tmp/ls`
gives an error, we don't have enough space on the disk

We can cheat in the following way
`$ ln -s /bin/ls /tmp/ls`
A symbolic link does not consume much space, so this command succeeds. 
`./sudo` reads the file with `fopen`, and it should read the right content even behind a symlink, and compute the right hash, and start the program, but...
`$ ./sudo /tmp/ls`
does not start the program, for some reasons unknown to me.

So we can use a different strategy, instead of symlinking the binary directly, we can symlink a folder containing the binary:
`$ ln -s /bin/ /tmp/bin`
and prepare a different folder containing our crafted binary
`$ mkdir -p /tmp/newbin/bin`
`$ echo base64_of_a_binary_that_reads_the_file_flag.txt |base64 -d > /tmp/newbin/bin/ls`
`$ chmod +x /tmp/newbin/bin/ls`
Then we can start `./sudo` in parallel with a program that overrides the symbolic link
`$ ./sudo /tmp/bin/ls & ln -s -f /tmp/newbin/bin /tmp/`

In this way, `sudo` starts, it reads `/tmp/bin/ls` that is `/bin/ls`, then if we are lucky it gets interrupted before the `execve()`, the second part of the command starts (`ln -s`), that overrides `/tmp/bin` with `/tmp/newbin`, then sudo resumes and executes `/tmp/bin/ls` that is our crafted binary.  
By repeating 2-3 times the last sequence of commands our crafted binary starts and we obtain the flag `INSA{am_I_2_quick_4_U?}`.